# newcombsparadox
A couple functions simulating Newcomb's Paradox, a philosophical box paradox.

The paradox runs like this: There are two boxes, one transparent (box A) and one opaque (box B). The player can either pick both boxes or just the opaque box. The transparent box always has $1,000. The opaque box either has $0 or $1,000,000, depending on how well a "very reliable" predictor can predict the player's choice. If the predictor has predicted that the player will only take the opaque box, the predictor will have put $1,000,000 in that box. If the predictor has predicted that the player will be greedy and take both boxes, trying to get an extra $1,000, then the predictor will have put $0 into the opaque box. The question is: What is the best strategy? Should you, as the player, pick both boxes (sometimes called 2-boxing) or just the opaque box (sometimes called 1-boxing)?

The arguments for each side are as follows: 1-boxers argue that because the predictor is very reliable, the expected amount gained for just picking the opaque box is around $1,000,000, whereas the expected amount gained for picking both boxes is $1,000. So, taking only the opaque box is better. The 2-boxers helpfully clarify this situation for the 1-boxers: either the predictor predicts you will take both boxes, or just the opaque box. If the predictor predicted that you will take both boxes, then your choice is between $0 (taking only the opaque box) or $1,000 (taking both boxes). If the predictor predicted that you will only take the opaque box, then your choice is between taking $1,000,000 (taking only the opaque box) or $1,001,000 (taking both boxes). In both cases, taking both boxes maximizes your profit.

In the python file, I've created 3 functions to do some simulating based on how reliable the predictor really is (what if instead of 100% reliability, the predictor is only 80% reliable?) and how often the player decides to pick both boxes. The first simply simulates the player playing a certain number of times. The second function takes a reliability proportion and box choice proportion and creates 100,000 samples in which 100 games are played with the given proportions. Then, it plots the sample means in a sample distribution on a histogram and boxplot. The third function takes every strategy at 2% intervals and runs 10000 games with each strategy. It then plots the average gain for each strategy on a scatterplot with a trend line.

The trend, you may see, suggests that 1-boxing is the correct strategy. But I'm not sure that this is conclusive. I think I agree with Wolpert and Benford, who argue that the paradox as stated has two different "obvious" interpretations, each of which suggests a different optimal strategy. I believe I've coded the interpretation of the game that suggests the 1-boxing strategy. Version 1.1 containing the 2-boxing interpretation may be released soon.
